In this lecture, we look at how to handle the alerts.
So the most common alerts.
So I know a simple witness.
And this alert is used to notify a simple warning message with an okay button as shown.
Or there's usually confirmation of those.
And this is usually used for confirmation of a task.
For example, do you want to leave without saving?
Okay.
Or cancel?
So the main features of an alert and alert is displayed as an alert window to the user.
Alerts often used to communicate an important message.
The browser's focus shifts to the alert box, and the user can't interact with the web page until the
alert is closed.
An alert will not appear in the HTML or web page.
We need to use an interface to interact with the alert.
Switching to an alert and interacting with it.
We can interact with alerts by using Selenium switch two method and this method switches city news focus
and then by using the alert interface which exposed a number of methods that we can use to interact
with the alerts.
So to click on the okay button, we might write driver dot switch to dots alert except to click the
cancel button.
We might write driver dot switch to Dot's alert, not dismiss.
So let's try it out.
So before we begin, let me first walk you through the test.
So I'm going to open up chrome gates automation test in the co.uk and then click on the pop ups link,
which will take you to the following page.
So what I want to do in this test is click on this trigger alert button.
A alert will then appear and then I'll want to click the okay button to close it.
So the first thing to do is to inspect the page.
And if I open up the Runner Rocks philosophy panel and then use a selector tool to focus on that bottom.
You'll see that on then provided with some selectors.
So if I click on this button.
You won't find this alert in the HTML and we can't use a selector tool to focus on it because the browser
focus is now shifted to this alert.
So I can't even interact with this page until of closer look.
So this is where we need to use the switch to interface.
So I'm going to minimize this for now and open up the clips and I'm going to simply copy and paste the
class in the last lecture.
I'm going to give the new class the name of zero seven for Lecture seven and I'm going to call it alerts
and then click.
Okay.
So I'm going to double click that class and I'm going to remove the codes from the last lecture that
we no longer require.
So the first thing I'm going to do is update the address.
So I'm going to go back to the browser and copy the popups address.
And go back to eclipse and replace the existing one.
Like so.
So the first thing we need to do is to click on the trigger alerts bottom.
So I'm going to copy a CSF selector and choose a second one.
And I'm gonna go back to Eclipse and my driver.
Dot find elements by this selector and in the brackets.
I'm going to put double quotes and pipes that value.
And then dot click.
So that will locate the button and it click it.
So once we've done that, it would open up the alert and now we need to switch to this alert and then
click on the okay button.
Now to do that, I'm going to write driver dots.
Switch to.
Dots, alert and then dots.
And there's an option to accept.
So that's all the code we need.
But because I'm going to demonstrate this test to you and it happened so quickly, I'm going to slow
this test down just for demonstration purposes, and I'm going to do this right in the line.
Fred, the sleep.
And all this starts is it slows down the test, says commit, delay it by 3 seconds before it moves
on to the forward line.
And whenever you use for sleep, you need to add a further declaration.
Right.
So now I'm going to save this class and then I'm going to try running it to see what happens.
So it's open the inner switched focus and then click the okay button.
So the code is fairly simple.
But if we come across an alert had to cancel button or we'd need to do is change accept to dot dismiss
and that would select the cancel button on not.
So I hope you found this lecture useful.
And I look forward to speaking to you in the next lecture.